Early Autumn Collegiate Novice 3 (Fall 2012), Packet #1
Written by Farrah Bilimoria, Nick Conder, Siddhant Dogra, Aaron Dos Remedios,
Ian Drayer, Michael Garn, Alex Gerten, Abid Haseeb, Matthew Hill, Michael Hundley, Melanie Keating, Shan
Kothari, Tanay Kothari, Ryan McLaren, Colin McNamara, Jacob O’Rourke, Zach Pace, Srijay Rajan, Ryan
Rosenberg, Tony Song, Spencer Weinreich, Tristan Willey, Richard Yu, and Ben Zhang
Edited by Andrew Hart
Tossups
1. The production of these particles instead of waves explains why bremsstrahlung produces x-rays with a maximum
frequency. These particles collide with matter, such as electrons, to produce Compton scattering. Stimulated
emission is the result of one of these particles striking an excited atom and producing another one of them as
coherent radiation. Einstein explained an effect in which these particles strike a metal, which then gives off
electrons. For 10 points, name these particles, the quanta of light.
ANSWER: photons
2. The title character of this work breaks off a relationship with Amy Lawrence, and states that the first two
disciples were David and Goliath, after receiving a prize Bible at Sunday school. With Joe Harper, the title character
of this work spends a week living as a pirate, and then appears at his own funeral, after the town of St. Petersburg,
including his Aunt Polly, believes he has drowned in the Mississippi. For 10 points, name this novel in which Injun
Joe commits a murder witnessed by Huckleberry Finn and the title character, a work by Mark Twain.
ANSWER: The Adventures of Tom Sawyer
3. In this film, a montage of scenes at a breakfast table reveals the breakdown of the main character’s marriage. In
this film, which opens with a shot of a “No Trespassing” sign, the main character is sent his neglected “Declaration
of Principles” by a man he had fired. In this film, a Chicago opera house is built for the main character’s second
wife Susan. Its main character, who drops a snow globe when he dies, is based partly on William Randolph Hearst.
For 10 points, name this film directed by and starring Orson Welles, whose title character’s last word is “Rosebud.”
ANSWER: Citizen Kane
4. This thinker believed that it was illogical to hold a bird of prey accountable for being a bird of prey in a work that
discusses the “blond beast.” In one work, which he later followed up with an Attempt at Self-Criticism, this man
claimed that a dramatic form introduced a dichotomy between the Apollonian and Dionysian. This author of The
Genealogy of Morals also theorized eternal recurrence and the overman. For 10 points, name this German thinker of
Thus Spake Zarathustra and The Birth of Tragedy who proclaimed “God is dead” in The Gay Science.
ANSWER: Friedrich [Wilhelm] Nietzsche
5. One team in this city earned its first franchise no-hitter thanks to a blown call down the third-base line by umpire
Adrian Johnson. The longtime closer for a baseball team in this city tore his ACL while chasing a fly ball during
batting practice. A football team in this city won a Super Bowl when Sterling Moore and Patrick Chung couldn’t
stop Mario Manningham from making a catch down the sideline. For 10 points, name this city that is home to the
teams that Johan Santana, Mariano Rivera, and Eli Manning play for: the Mets, Yankees, and Giants.
ANSWER: New York City [or NYC]

6. One work by this composer opens with a flute solo that descends chromatically to a tritone below the original
pitch, and then ascends back to the original pitch. A symphonic work by this composer features the sections titled
for “dawn to noon” at the title location and the “dialogue between the wind and the waves.” A Stephane Mallarmé
poem inspired one work by this composer, whose Suite Bergamasque contains Clair de Lune. For 10 points, name this
French impressionist composer of Prelude to the Afternoon of a Faun and La Mer.
ANSWER: Claude Debussy [or Claude-Achille Debussy]
7. This religion was practiced by members of the Way of the Five Pecks of Rice. Compassion, frugality, and humility
are this religion’s Three Treasures. One of this religion’s important texts was written by Zhuangzi. Concepts in this
religion include perception without prejudice, or pu, and power, or de. Its deities include the creator god Pangu and
the heaven-ruling Jade Emperor. It stresses the principle of “doing without doing” called Wu Wei. For 10 points,
name this Chinese religion of “the way,” the central text of which was written by Laozi.
ANSWER: Daoism [or Taoism]
8. As an alternative to the swampy environs of this place, Henricus, was founded by Thomas Dale. Thomas West,
Lord De La Warr, saved this location from disaster when George Percy’s abysmal negotiating skills caused the
“Starving Time.” The House of Burgesses was established at this location in 1619. One leader of this city, tobacco
entrepreneur John Rolfe, married the daughter of Powhatan, Pocahontas. For 10 points, John Smith was one leader
of what first permanent British settlement in the modern United States, established in 1607 in Virginia?
ANSWER: Jamestown, Virginia [or James Fort]
9. In the epilogue of this work, Professor Pieixoto discusses the possible rescue of the protagonist by the resistance
group Mayday. The main character of this work has an affair with Nick, chauffeur to the former televangelist Serena
Joy. Its protagonist wonders about the fate of Luke, and visits The House of Jezebel, a brothel where her best
friend Moira is forced to work. This novel is set in the Republic of Gilead, where many women are sexual slaves to
men like The Commander. For 10 points, Offred (“of Fred”) narrates what dystopian novel by Margaret Atwood?
ANSWER: The Handmaid’s Tale
10. One of this king’s orders established political subdivisions in his country that are now called boroughs. This
leader’s coronation occurred during a visit to Pope Leo IV ordered by his father, Aethelwulf. With the Danish king
Guthrum, this leader signed a treaty demarcating a region known as the Danelaw. This leader’s victory at the Battle
of Eddington slowed down the Viking conquest of Britain. This ruler’s kingdom of Wessex led the process of
Anglo-Saxon unification. For 10 points, name this only English king with the epithet “the Great.”
ANSWER: Alfred the Great
11. Yearly tributes to this figure resulted when Androgeus died in an attempt to slay its father after the Panathenian
festival. Its killer abandoned his companion on Naxos, after which she wedded Dionysus. This figure, whose proper
name was Asterion, was conceived after Dedalus manufactured a wooden animal for Pasiphae to sit inside. After its
defeat, its killer escaped its prison with the help of a golden thread given to him by Ariadne. For 10 points, name
this monster from Greek mythology, which resided in the Labyrinth and was half man and half bull.
ANSWER: the Minotaur [accept Asterion before mentioned]

12. A recent book by Akerlof and Shiller titled for an idea of this man, Animal Spirits, argues that psychological
forces spurred the financial crisis. He rejected the neutrality of money, arguing that inflation can increase
consumption in the short run due to price misperception. John Hicks’s IS/LM model mathematically summarizes
the ideas of this man, whose namesake branch of economics created the economic “multiplier” and believes in the
efficacy of fiscal policy. For 10 points, name this British author of the General Theory of Employment, Interest, and Money.
ANSWER: John Maynard Keynes
13. The nation that lost this war subsequently entered a period of reform called the Age of Liberty. In this war, a
victory by Prince Menshikov held off an invasion attempt by a foreign king. The losing country won a critical early
battle in this war at the city of Narva, now located in Estonia. The two sides in this war signed the Treaty of Nystad
after Charles XII was forced into decisive retreat following the Battle of Poltava. For 10 points, name this 1700 to
‘21 conflict, which Sweden lost to a Peter the Great-led Russia.
ANSWER: Great Northern War
14. In one work by this man, the title figure has eternal life but not youth, and realizes “the Gods themselves cannot
recall their gifts.” The title figure of another work by this author of “Tithonus” gathers his former crewmates, “To
strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield.” That poem is “Ulysses,” one of this Victorian poet’s dramatic monologues.
In another poem, this man described “the six hundred” riding “into the Valley of Death” and claimed “Their’s not
to reason why, / Their’s but to do and die.” For 10 points, name this poet of “The Charge of the Light Brigade.”
ANSWER: Lord Tennyson [or Alfred Tennyson; or Alfred, Lord Tennyson]
15. The breakdown of this tissue can be combatted with the supplements glucosamine and chrondroitin suflate.
This tissue, which contains proteoglycans and collagen, comes in three types, one of which is the hyaline type,
which covers the articular surfaces of bone. Degradation of this tissue leads to a disorder, often treated by COX-2
inhibitors such as Celebrex, called osteoarthritis. Another type of this tissue makes up the medial and lateral menisci
of the knee and is frequently torn. For 10 points, name this constituent tissue of ears and noses.
ANSWER: cartilage
16. One work from this movement features a bodybuilder holding a lollipop. Another work in this movement
features a blue-haired girl who exclaims, “I don’t care! I’d rather sink—than call Brad for help!” A two-panel
depiction of a rocket hitting a fighter plane with the word “WHAAM!” was created by one proponent of this artistic
style, Roy Lichtenstein. Another artist in this movement created depictions of Marilyn Monroe and Campbell’s soup
cans. For 10 points, name this mid-twentieth-century art movement associated with Andy Warhol.
ANSWER: pop art
17. This type of interaction was first proposed in a 1920 paper by Latimer and Rodebush. The presence of this type
of interaction is preferred in E2 and SN2 but not E1 and SN1 reactions. Protein secondary structure involves this
type of interaction between different atoms in the amide backbone. In ice, this type of interaction is important in
determining the crystal structure formed. It also causes water to have a high boiling point. For 10 points, name this
interaction that requires both a donor and acceptor of the namesake simplest element.
ANSWER: hydrogen bonding [or H bonding; prompt on hydrogen; prompt on H]

18. One of this man’s works features a group of dancing dead mystics and the monster Empusa. In that play, this
author wrote of a master and servant who take turns being hit to see which one is a god. In another of his works, an
old man enrolls in the “Thinkery,” and Socrates is lampooned as a wacky devotee of the title deities. Other plays by
this man see Dionysius journey to Hades in search of poets and a gang of women deny sex to their husbands until
peace is declared. For 10 points, name this ancient Greek comedian of The Clouds, The Frogs, and Lysistrata.
ANSWER: Aristophanes
19. Cumulate rocks are a subtype of this kind of rock. This is the type of rock in which “flow banding” may be
observed. Silica content can classify these rocks into felsic, mafic, and ultramafic varieties. Rhyolite, diorite, and
gabbro all belong to this group. Varieties of this most abundant type of rock found in the Earth’s crust are classified
as either intrusive or extrusive depending on whether they were formed below or on the surface. For 10 points,
name these rocks that form from cooling magma or lava, contrasted with sedimentary and metamorphic rocks.
ANSWER: igneous rocks
20. This royal was almost killed by a grenade thrown by a Korean dissident during the Sakuradamon Incident. He
advised his nation to begin “enduring the unendurable” after surrendering on behalf of his nation in the Jewel Voice
radio broadcast. This regent led a country during the Mukden Incident, which served as a pretext for his nation’s
invasion of Manchuria. A picture of this man, also known as Showa, shows him next to Douglas MacArthur after
renouncing his divinity. For 10 points, name this emperor of Japan during World War II.
ANSWER: Emperor Hirohito [or Showa Emperor before mentioned]
TB-21. This value relates the width and perimeter of a Reuleaux triangle according to Barbier’s Theorem. A spigot
algorithm like Rabinowitz and Wagon’s can be used to verify the accuracy for estimates of this value. Buffon’s
needle gives an estimate for this value, which is twice the inverse cosine of zero. The fact that this number is
transcendental guarantees there is no solution to the classical problem of squaring a circle. For 10 points, name this
mathematical constant, the ratio of a circle’s perimeter to its diameter, which approximately equals 3.14.
ANSWER: pi
TB-22. A work by this writer tells of Littlewit’s friends Quarlous and Winwife, who try to woo Dame Purecraft. He
wrote a poem that begins, “Drink to me only with thine eyes.” This author of “To Celia” wrote a play in which
Corbaccio is convinced to disown Bonario by the protagonist’s assistant Mosca. In another play by this author, Face
and Subtle become entangled in a plan to fleece Sir Epicure Mammon by pretending to turn metal into gold. For 10
points, name this English dramatist who wrote Bartholomew Fair, The Alchemist, and Volpone.
ANSWER: Ben Jonson [or Benjamin Jonson]

Early Autumn Collegiate Novice 3 (Fall 2012), Packet #1
Written by Farrah Bilimoria, Nick Conder, Siddhant Dogra, Aaron Dos Remedios,
Ian Drayer, Michael Garn, Alex Gerten, Abid Haseeb, Matthew Hill, Michael Hundley, Melanie Keating, Shan
Kothari, Tanay Kothari, Ryan McLaren, Colin McNamara, Jacob O’Rourke, Zach Pace, Srijay Rajan, Ryan
Rosenberg, Tony Song, Spencer Weinreich, Tristan Willey, Richard Yu, and Ben Zhang
Edited by Andrew Hart
Bonuses
1. One of these artworks features Neptune riding a chariot that is pulled by two sea horses. For 10 points each:
[10] The Trevi is an example of what kind of artwork, into which it is customary to toss coins?
ANSWER: fountains [or fontana]
[10] The Trevi Fountain is found in this European city, which contains an equestrian statue of Marcus Aurelius on its
Capitoline Hill.
ANSWER: Rome [or Roma]
[10] Rome’s Fountain of the Four Rivers was created by this Baroque sculptor who depicted a nymph transforming into
a tree in his Apollo and Daphne.
ANSWER: Gian Lorenzo Bernini
2. This character loses his fondness for milk, and instead takes to eating rotting scraps of food. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this protagonist of The Metamorphosis, a traveling salesman who wakes up one morning as a massive
insect-like creature.
ANSWER: Gregor Samsa [accept either]
[10] The Metamorphosis is by this Czech-born author of The Trial and “In the Penal Colony.”
ANSWER: Franz Kafka
[10] Kafka also wrote this novel, in which K., a land surveyor, is unable to access the mysterious title location.
ANSWER: The Castle [or Das Schloss]
3. These biological monomers are usually in a zwitterionic form. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this class of molecules that make up proteins, examples of which include tryptophan, alanine, and lysine.
ANSWER: amino acids
[10] During translation, amino acids are polymerized by these complexes, which are formed in the nucleolus.
ANSWER: ribosomes
[10] Some proteins can become infectious agents. This is the name of those misfolded proteins that are responsible
for mad cow disease and kuru.
ANSWER: prions
4. Pedro Álvares Cabral claimed this country as a colony. For 10 points each:
[10] Name Portugal’s largest New World colony, which was led by two emperors named Pedro after independence.
ANSWER: Brazil [accept Federative Republic of Brazil; or Empire of Brazil; or Viceroyalty of Brazil]
[10] While Pedro II of Brazil was away, his daughter Isabel issued the “Golden Law,” which made Brazil the last
New World nation to abolish this practice.
ANSWER: slavery [accept word forms; or escravidão]
[10] This Brazilian ordered the dissolution of Congress and ushered in a period of authoritarianism known as the
Estado Novo, which lasted during his time as dictator and president from 1930 to 1954.
ANSWER: Getúlio [Dornelles] Vargas

5. Terry Eagleton wrote “an introduction” to this field of study. For 10 points each:
[10] Harold Bloom, the author of The Western Canon, is a prominent modern scholar in what academic field?
ANSWER: literary criticism [prompt on partial answer; accept word forms of either word]
[10] This critic discussed “material correlatives” in the essay “Hamlet and His Problems” and wrote The Waste Land.
ANSWER: T.S. Eliot [or Thomas Stearns Eliot]
[10] This member of the Lake Poets and author of “Tintern Abbey” wrote that poetry should be the “spontaneous
overflow of powerful feelings” in the preface to a work that he co-wrote, Lyrical Ballads.
ANSWER: William Wordsworth
6. Name the following about noncomputational math, for 10 points each.
[10] In linear algebra, Cramer’s rule involves using these array-like structures to solve a system of equations. They
have rows and columns.
ANSWER: matrix [or matrices]
[10] Cramer’s rule also involves finding this value for a given square matrix. It is often denoted by surrounding the
matrix entries with a vertical bar on each side.
ANSWER: determinant
[10] To compute the determinant of a two-by-two matrix, this operation is performed to the entries in the a and c
positions as well as those in the b and d positions before subtracting.
ANSWER: multiplication [accept word forms]
7. Botticelli painted this goddess with Mars to show the triumph of love over war. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this goddess whom Botticelli depicted rising from a seashell in a painting showing her “birth.”
ANSWER: Venus [or Venere; accept The Birth of Venus; or Mars and Venus; do not accept “Aphrodite”]
[10] This Renaissance artist painted a nude woman reclining on a bed in his Venus of Urbino. A god riding a chariot
drawn by cheetahs confronts a stranded princess in his painting Bacchus and Ariadne.
ANSWER: Titian [or Tiziano Vecellio (accept either)]
[10] An acclaimed Titian work in Venice depicts this figure being taken up into heaven in her “Assumption.”
ANSWER: the Virgin Mary [accept either; or Maria; accept Assumption of the Virgin]
8. Answer the following about the philosophy of discovering new knowledge, for 10 points each.
[10] This technique can be employed as a procedure of inquiry into new knowledge. It consists of observation,
experiment, and the formulation and modification of one or several hypotheses.
ANSWER: scientific method [prompt on science or word forms; prompt on method or word forms]
[10] The development of the scientific method is credited to this seventeenth-century English thinker who penned
Novum Organum and is a foundational empiricist.
ANSWER: Francis Bacon [do not accept “Roger Bacon”]
[10] Philosopher of science Karl Popper believed that science must aspire to this criterion, under which a
hypothesis is testable by empirical experiment.
ANSWER: falsifiability [accept word forms]

9. In this work, Bokanovsky’s Process and Podsnap’s Technique are used to regulate a population composed of
classes like Alphas, Betas, and Deltas. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel, set in a dystopian future based on the precepts of Henry Ford, in which John the Savage
turns out to be the illegitimate son of the Director of the Central London Hatchery.
ANSWER: Brave New World
[10] People in Brave New World consume copious amounts of this drug, which provides hallucinogenic “holidays.”
ANSWER: soma
[10] This British author of Point Counter Point and Crome Yellow wrote Brave New World.
ANSWER: Aldous [Leonard] Huxley
10. Name some things associated with a common analytical technique, for 10 points each.
[10] This technique, often employed in photoelectron spectroscopy, can use either a magnetic sector or time of
flight to separate ions based on their mass-to-charge ratio.
ANSWER: mass spectrometry [or mass spectroscopy; prompt on MS]
[10] A mass spec sample is typically analyzed while it is in this phase of matter.
ANSWER: a gas [accept word forms like gaseous]
[10] The presence of this halogen, a red-brown liquid at room temperature, results in a 1 to 1 ratio of the intensity
of the M+2 to M isotopic peaks.
ANSWER: bromine [or Br]
11. One work by this composer consists of the ambient sounds in the room for the title duration. For 10 points:
[10] Name this American composer of 4’ 33” (four minutes, thirty-three seconds).
ANSWER: John Cage [or John Milton Cage Jr.]
[10] Cage has created a “prepared” version of this instrument to simulate the sound of percussion. Cage’s version
includes such extra parts as hunks of wood, rubber, plastic, coins, nuts, screws, and bolts.
ANSWER: piano [or pianoforte]
[10] Cage wrote a piece for this instrument designated to be played as slow as possible. One ongoing performance
of that work is currently being played on an instrument that is not yet fully built, and will end in 2640.
ANSWER: pipe organ
12. Among U.S. cities, only three—New York, Los Angeles, and Chicago—have more skyscrapers than this city.
For 10 points each:
[10] Name this U.S. city surrounded by the Koolau Mountains whose landmarks include the Iolani Palace, where a
monarchy was based until 1893.
ANSWER: Honolulu
[10] Honolulu is located on this most populous of the Hawaiian Islands.
ANSWER: Oahu
[10] This second-largest Hawaiian island by area is home to Haleakala National Park and the cities of Wailuku and
Lahaina.
ANSWER: Maui

13. While serving in this position, William Laud was beheaded for supporting Charles I. For 10 points:
[10] Name this position held by the principal leader of the Church of England, currently held by Rowan Williams.
ANSWER: Archbishop of Canterbury [prompt on partial answer]
[10] This Archbishop of Canterbury asserted papal supremacy over Henry II, leading to his murder at Canterbury.
ANSWER: Thomas [à] Becket [or St. Thomas of Canterbury; or Thomas of London; prompt on Thomas]
[10] Henry II established the legal means to punish “criminous clerks” within the English church by issuing a set of
“constitutions” named for this palace at which they were ordered.
ANSWER: Clarendon [accept Constitutions of Clarendon]
14. This god’s avatars included Rama and Krishna. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Hindu member of the Trimurti along with Brahma and Shiva.
ANSWER: Vishnu
[10] In the Vedas, Vishnu was associated with this god who drank a lot of Soma before his battle with Vritra.
ANSWER: Indra [or Sakra]
[10] In the Hindu Trimurti, Vishnu played this role, as opposed to Brahma’s role as “the creator.”
ANSWER: the preserver [accept word forms like preservation]
15. A majority of participants in this man’s study were willing to administer electric shocks. For 10 points each:
[10] Name the Yale psychologist for whom the “obedience to authority” experiment is named.
ANSWER: Stanley Milgram
[10] Milgram was partly inspired by the trial of this Nazi who exemplified the “banality of evil” in Hannah Arendt’s
book titled for him “in Jerusalem.”
ANSWER: [Otto] Adolf Eichmann [accept Eichmann in Jerusalem; or Eichmann trial]
[10] This experiment performed by Milgram found that the average number of times a package had to be forwarded
for it to get from someone in Omaha or Wichita to someone in Boston was around six.
ANSWER: small world experiment
16. Locations crucial to this battle include Cemetery Hill and Little Round Top, and its third day witnessed Pickett’s
Charge. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this 1863 American Civil War battle, fought in Pennsylvania.
ANSWER: The Battle of Gettysburg
[10] The Union forces were commanded at Gettysburg by this general who failed to pursue the retreating army.
ANSWER: George Gordon Meade
[10] Prior to Gettysburg, Meade replaced this Union general who lost at Chancellorsville and shied away from
pursuing Lee. His name is probably not the actual source for a slang term for prostitutes.
ANSWER: Joseph Hooker
17. The main character of this work kills his adopted son Ikemefuna. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel, set in colonial Nigeria, which features the warrior Okonkwo.
ANSWER: Things Fall Apart
[10] Okonkwo’s son, Nwoye, takes the name Isaac after undergoing this process, guided by Mr. Brown.
ANSWER: converting to Christianity [accept equivalents; prompt on converting or word forms]
[10] Things Fall Apart joins No Longer At Ease and Arrow of God in this Nigerian author’s “Africa Trilogy.”
ANSWER: Chinua Achebe [or Albert Chinualomogu Achebe]

18. Name the following from the illustrious science career of Albert Einstein, for 10 points each.
[10] Einstein formulated this equation, which represents mass-energy equivalence and can be used to calculate the
energy released in a nuclear reaction.
ANSWER: e = mc2 (“e equals m c squared”)
[10] E = mc2 can be derived using the principles of this theory, which incorporates the idea that the speed of light is
the same in all inertial reference frames and is contrasted with a similar “general” theory.
ANSWER: special relativity [prompt on partial answer]
[10] Einstein used the principles of diffusion to describe this random motion of particles in a fluid and determine
Avogadro’s constant.
ANSWER: Brownian motion
19. The Committee of Public Safety ordered the execution of many Girondins during this time. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this violent period during the French Revolution during which Maxmilien Robespierre oversaw the use
of the guillotine on Louis XVI and Marie Antoinette.
ANSWER: the Reign of Terror [or the Terror; or la Terreur]
[10] France’s National Convention ended the Reign of Terror by ordering Robespierre and other leaders put to
death in a “reaction” named for this month on the French calendar.
ANSWER: Thermidor [accept Thermidorian Reaction]
[10] This ironically named body served as the de facto French government during the Reign of Terror, during which
Robespierre led it and the “Angel of Death,” Saint-Just, served as a member.
ANSWER: Committee of Public Safety [or Comité de Salut Public]
20. The protector goddess Wadjet was often shown coiled on this deity’s head. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Egyptian creator god who was protected by Mehen against Apep during his voyage across the sky in
the solar barge.
ANSWER: Ra [or Re]
[10] This god was originally also a protector of Ra, but was later syncretized with Apep after the popularization of
the Cult of Horus, the son of the deity that this god killed.
ANSWER: Set [or Seth; or Setesh; or Sutekh; or Setekh; or Suty]
[10] Set killed this god, his brother, and cut his body into fourteen pieces. This god’s wife, Isis, later reassembled
him, and he became the god of the dead.
ANSWER: Osiris [or Asari; or Wesir]
Extra. One novel in this language includes a squire who rides on a donkey named Dapple. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this language that Miguel Cervantes used to write about the knight-errant Don Quixote.
ANSWER: Spanish [or Español; or Castillian; or Castellano]
[10] Don Quixote’s inspiration is this alleged princess who in actuality is a simple peasant named Aldonza Lorenzo.
ANSWER: Dulcinea del Toboso [accept either underlined part]
[10] This twentieth-century Spanish writer wrote the poem “Lament for the Death of a Bullfighter” and the plays
Blood Wedding, Yerma, and The House of Bernarda Alba.
ANSWER: Federico García Lorca [or Federico del Sagrado Corazón de Jesús García Lorca]


